---
layout: post
title: "Leveling Up: LFCS, CKAD, and Tab Completion Zen"
date: 2025-06-29
categories: devops learning journey
---

I've decided to go deeper into Linux by starting to prep for the LFCS exam. The Kodecloud prep for it seems great. I first got a month’s worth of subscription for the CKAD mock exams but then realized I could also make it worth my money by doing this 15h course. I felt like knowing the commands better and the directory architecture would be helpful. After hearing most veterans in Kubecraft say that Linux is the base, I thought it was worth the sidestep. It's already been fruitful! 

At the same time, I’ve been hammering through the CKAD prep. I started the KodeKloud mock exam series and ran through my first Killer Shell simulation. Brutal, but useful. It’s a good way to find out where I’m too slow or relying too much on memory instead of muscle. I actually think it's the best way to learn, at least for me. Doing 2 or 3 mock exams in one day has allowed me to understand Helm much more for example or practice mounting and creating volumes. My brain feels like it’s melting by the end of the day but I take notes of my mistakes, find solutions and usually when I redo the test it’s much better. 

Hardest point for me so far has been Helm: I feel like it's hard to teach helm any other way than by playing around. Just the concepts of repo, charts and releases become clear once you have gone through a few exercises. I think this has been tough for me because I zoned out a lot in the video classes. 

One small trick I’ve been using: tab completion as a validation tool. If I type something like --dry-run=client at the end of a long command and it doesn’t autocomplete, chances are there’s something wrong in the syntax. Helps avoid silly mistakes.

Also, I’ve started putting -n <namespace> right at the start of my commands. It just feels cleaner and avoids surprises.

Still a lot to learn, but it’s coming together.
